{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern Courier;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\fs24
\b VoiceLink Data Export + Migration Guide\b0\line
\line
\b Purpose\b0\line
This guide explains how users and admins use the new export and migration features, and how to verify they are working.\line
\line
\b 1) User Feature: Export My Data (macOS app)\b0\line
\line
Where:\line
Settings -> Privacy -> Data -> Export My Data\line
\line
What it does:\line
- Requests a server-side user export archive (.zip)\line
- Includes your user data, room membership data, and message data (when available)\line
- Attempts CopyParty upload (if configured)\line
- Opens the download URL automatically when ready\line
\line
Expected success result:\line
- Status text in settings: Data export ready. Opened download link.\line
- Desktop notification from VoiceLink\line
- Browser opens download URL\line
\line
\b 2) Admin Feature: Migrate Users/Rooms to Another Server\b0\line
\line
Primary endpoint:\line
\f1 POST /api/admin/migration/export\f0\line
\line
Supports:\line
- Export full migration snapshot as .zip\line
- Optional CopyParty upload\line
- Optional API push to target server import endpoint\line
- Optional rsync push\line
- Optional room transfer trigger using Escort Me flow\line
\line
Escort migration hook endpoint:\line
\f1 POST /api/admin/migration/room-transfer\f0\line
\line
This creates an escort session with \f1 migrationMode=true\f0 and sends \f1 escort-started\f0 to users in the source room so they can move together.\line
\line
\b 3) User-to-User File Sharing\b0\line
\line
Mounted API base:\line
\f1 /api/file-transfer\f0\line
\line
Key routes:\line
- \f1 POST /api/file-transfer/receive\f0\line
- \f1 GET /api/file-transfer/received\f0\line
- \f1 GET /api/file-transfer/download/:sender/:filename\f0\line
- \f1 DELETE /api/file-transfer/delete/:sender/:filename\f0\line
\line
\b 4) Fast Verification Checklist\b0\line
\line
\b User Export\b0\line
1. Open VoiceLink app.\line
2. Go to Settings -> Privacy.\line
3. Press Export My Data.\line
4. Confirm a .zip download URL opens.\line
5. Confirm the archive exists at server route \f1 /exports/*.zip\f0.\line
\line
\b File Sharing\b0\line
1. Upload a test file through the app flow (or API).\line
2. Confirm file appears in \f1 GET /api/file-transfer/received\f0.\line
3. Download it via \f1 /download/:sender/:filename\f0 and verify contents.\line
4. Delete it via \f1 /delete/:sender/:filename\f0.\line
5. Confirm list is empty/updated.\line
\line
\b Migration + Escort\b0\line
1. Pick source + target room IDs.\line
2. Call \f1 POST /api/admin/migration/room-transfer\f0 with admin auth.\line
3. Confirm response returns \f1 success=true\f0 and session object.\line
4. Confirm users in source room receive Escort Me prompt/event.\line
\line
\b 5) Troubleshooting\b0\line
\line
If export button says failed:\line
- Check server is online and reachable.\line
- Check \f1 POST /api/export/my-data\f0 directly.\line
- Check PM2 logs for route errors.\line
\line
If CopyParty upload is false or fails:\line
- Verify CopyParty service reachable.\line
- Verify env vars:\line
\f1 VOICELINK_COPYPARTY_URL\f0\line
\f1 VOICELINK_COPYPARTY_EXPORT_PATH\f0\line
\f1 VOICELINK_COPYPARTY_USERNAME\f0 (optional)\line
\f1 VOICELINK_COPYPARTY_PASSWORD\f0 (optional)\line
\line
If file transfer list is empty after upload:\line
- Verify route mount exists: \f1 this.app.use('/api/file-transfer', fileTransferRoutes)\f0\line
- Verify process restarted after deployment.\line
- Verify transfer storage path exists and is writable.\line
\line
\b 6) Verified Working (Current Session)\b0\line
\line
- Export endpoint returns a valid zip archive response.\line
- File sharing passed upload/list/download/delete on live VM.\line
- Admin migration Escort Me hook returned success and created active session.\line
\line
\b End of Guide\b0\line
}
